docs: Add documentation on how to add a new package. (#8178)
microsoft/azurelinux: toolkit/docs/building/add-package.md

# Adding package to CBL-Mariner

This document describes how to add a new package to `CBL-Mariner`.
Along this document, we will take [Inspektor Gadget]() as package example.

## The files needed

First, you need to create a directory under `SPECS`:

```bash
$ mkdir SPECS/ig
```

Each package relies on 2 different files:

1. A SPEC file: it contains information on the software and how to build and package it.
2. A signature file: this JSON file contains hashes of `tar.gz` archives used to get the sources.

We will now take a look at each of these files.

### The SPEC file

> `CBL Mariner` uses RPM packages, so you will need to write a [`SPEC` file](https://rpm-software-management.github.io/rpm/manual/spec.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Azure Linux` uses RPM packages, so you will need to write a [`SPEC` file](https://rpm-software-management.github.io/rpm/manual/spec.html)
```

%prep
%autosetup -n inspektor-gadget-%{version}
%setup -q -n inspektor-gadget-%{version} -T -D -a 1

# Steps to actually build the packaged software.
%build
CGO_ENABLED=0 go build \
		-ldflags "-X github.com/inspektor-gadget/inspektor-gadget/cmd/common.version=v%{version} \
			-X github.com/inspektor-gadget/inspektor-gadget/cmd/common/image.builderImage=ghcr.io/inspektor-gadget/ebpf-builder:v%{version} \
			-extldflags '-static'" \
		-tags "netgo" \
		-o ./bin/build/ig ./cmd/ig

# Steps to install the compiled software.
# In this case, we just copy the ig binary under /bin.
%install
mkdir -p "%{buildroot}/%{_bindir}"
install -D -m0755 bin/build/ig %{buildroot}/%{_bindir}

# Steps used to check the compiled software run as expected.
%check
make gadgets-unit-tests
ig_file=$(mktemp /tmp/ig-XXXXXX.out)
sudo ./bin/build/ig trace exec --host > $ig_file &
ig_pid=$!
sleep inf &
sleep_pid=$!
kill $ig_pid
kill $sleep_pid
grep -P "${sleep_pid}\s+\d+\s+sleep" $ig_file
rm $ig_file

# Files which will be part of the resulting RPM package.
%files
%license LICENSE
%license LICENSE-bpf.txt
%{_bindir}/ig

%changelog
* Tue Mar 14 2023 Francis Laniel <flaniel@linux.microsoft.com> - 0.25.0-1

> - Original version for CBL-Mariner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Original version for Azure Linux
```

...
INFO[0003][srpmpacker] Packing 1/1 SPECs
...
INFO[0000][scheduler] Testing: ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.src.rpm
INFO[0000][scheduler] Building: ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.src.rpm
...
INFO[0200][scheduler] Built SRPMs:
INFO[0200][scheduler] --> ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.src.rpm
INFO[0200][scheduler] Passed SRPMs tests:
INFO[0200][scheduler] --> ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.src.rpm
```

Everything was built and tested, you should now have the package available:

```bash
$ rpm -ql ../out/RPMS/x86_64/ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64.rpm
/usr/bin/ig
/usr/share/licenses/ig
/usr/share/licenses/ig/LICENSE
/usr/share/licenses/ig/LICENSE-bpf.txt
```

The content seems good, let's test it locally:

```bash
$ rpm2cpio ../out/RPMS/x86_64/ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64.rpm | cpio -idmv
./usr/bin/ig
./usr/share/licenses/ig
./usr/share/licenses/ig/LICENSE
./usr/share/licenses/ig/LICENSE-bpf.txt
149181 blocs
$ ./usr/bin/ig --help
Collection of gadgets for containers

Usage:
  ig [command]
...
```

> Congratulations! You successfully built a CBL-Mariner package!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You successfully built an Azure Linux package!
```

> 

Reviewer: We have a few automatic tools in the toolkit to help here, setting up a full VM can be a pain.

Feel free to edit the formatting, the suggestion box didn't like using backticks.
```suggestion
## Testing in a Container

The toolkit can generate an azl containers for you, and auto launch them:
```bash
# Start the test container
sudo make containerized-rpmbuild MODE=test SRPM_PACK_LIST='ig' DAILY_BUILD_ID=3-0-2024028
...
~/repos/temp/CBL-Mariner_TEMP3/toolkit/scripts/containerized-build/create_container_build.sh 
...
Populating Intermediate SRPMs...
...
Setting up tools...
Setting up mounts...
Importing chroot into docker...
Chroot is up-to-date
Checking if build env is up-to-date...
...
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 ----------------------------------- MARINER BUILDER ! ----------------------------------- 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
******************************************************************************************
* To see this menu again, run  show_help
*
* Some tips:
*     Use local RPMs to satify dependencies:        run enable_local_repo
...

# Create a rpm repo based on the contents of ./out/RPMS/
enable_local_repo
...
-------- enabling local repo ---------
...
# Install the new package
tdnf install /mnt/RPMS/x86_64/ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64.rpm
ig --help
```

mkdir -p $TARBALL_FOLDER
cp $SRC_TARBALL $tmpdir

pushd $tmpdir > /dev/null

PKG_NAME="ig"
NAME_VER="$PKG_NAME-$PKG_VERSION"
VENDOR_TARBALL="$OUT_FOLDER/$NAME_VER-govendor-v$VENDOR_VERSION.tar.gz"

echo "Unpacking source tarball..."
tar -xf $SRC_TARBALL

echo "Vendor go modules..."
cd inspektor-gadget-"$PKG_VERSION"
go mod vendor

echo ""
echo "========================="
echo "Tar vendored tarball"
tar  --sort=name \
     --mtime="2021-04-26 00:00Z" \
     --owner=0 --group=0 --numeric-owner \
     --pax-option=exthdr.name=%d/PaxHeaders/%f,delete=atime,delete=ctime \
     -cf "$VENDOR_TARBALL" vendor

popd > /dev/null
echo "$PKG_NAME vendored modules are available at $VENDOR_TARBALL"
```

We now need to call the script:

```bash
$ bash generate_source_tarball.sh --srcTarball ig-0.25.0.tar.gz
...
$ ls
generate_source_tarball.sh  ig-0.25.0-govendor-v1.tar.gz  ig.spec  ig-0.25.0.tar.gz
```

We can now write our signature file:

```bash
$ sha256sum *.tar.gz
ba1c9153ee67cd9d1ebd31021ca3848c1099979c229b26bea6ad05470ac486ac  ig-0.25.0-govendor-v1.tar.gz
3d283e0f6e758b36e291e483e79e7a08c4ce2965a6c11f5c1ab671ced7015a6e  v0.25.0.tar.gz
# Edit the ig.signatures.json.

> $ $EDITOR ig.signatures.json

Reviewer 2: Just wanted to mention, the toolkit does have an option to compute the hashes on your behalf, which could save time & automate the `*.signatures.json` edits - https://github.com/microsoft/azurelinux/blob/3.0-dev/toolkit/docs/building/building.md#source-hashes

...
# The content should be the following:
$	cat ig.signatures.json
{
 "Signatures": {
  "ig-0.25.0-govendor-v1.tar.gz": "ba1c9153ee67cd9d1ebd31021ca3848c1099979c229b26bea6ad05470ac486ac",
  "ig-0.25.0.tar.gz": "3d283e0f6e758b36e291e483e79e7a08c4ce2965a6c11f5c1ab671ced7015a6e"
 }
}
```

## Building the package

We have all the files needed to build the package, let's build it:

```bash
$ cd toolkit
# First, we need to prepare to get the toolchain:

> $ ./scripts/setuplkgtoolchain.sh

Reviewer 2: This script is currently only available in the 3.0 tree. Let's target this PR towards 3.0-dev. Eventually, the need for this script will go away when we publish our 3.0 packages to our package server, similar to 2.0, where the toolkit will natively pull packages from our public package repo.

Password:
# Let's install openssh:
root@azure-linux [ ~ ]# tdnf install -y nano openssh-server
...
# Modify sshd config to enable root login:
root@azure-linux [ ~ ]# sed -i 's/PermitRootLogin no/PermitRootLogin yes/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# Now, we need to enable and start the ssh server:
root@azure-linux [ ~ ]# systemctl enable sshd
root@azure-linux [ ~ ]# systemctl start sshd
# Now, from the host, you can ssh to the guest to copy the package:
$ sftp -P 10022 root@localhost                                                                                                                                          francis/marinade-ig *% u=
Welcome to CBL-Mariner 2.0.20240223 (x86_64)
(root@localhost) Password:
Connected to localhost.
sftp> put ../out/RPMS/x86_64/ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64.rpm
Uploading ../out/RPMS/x86_64/ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64.rpm to /root/ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64.rpm
ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64.rpm                                                                                                                                                                                          100%   16MB   8.0MB/s   00:02
sftp> bye
# Go back to the VM and install the package:

> root@azure-linux [ ~ ]# tdnf install -y ig-0.25.1-1.x86_64.rpm

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
root@azure-linux [ ~ ]# tdnf install -y ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64.rpm
```
I think the filename should be this?

...
Installing/Updating: ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64
# You can now test the software:
root@azure-linux [ ~ ]# ig version
v0.25.0
root@azure-linux [ ~ ]# ig --help
Collection of gadgets for containers

Usage:
  ig [command]
...
^Croot@azure-linux [ ~ ]# ig trace exec --host > /tmp/ig.log &
[1] 706
root@azure-linux [ ~ ]# ls /dev/null

> ig-0.25.1-1.x86_64.rpm

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ig-0.25.0-1.azl3.x86_64.rpm
```
I think the filename should be this?
